---
template: post
title: Class notes - 513 (Resource selection and evaluation)
---

* TOC
{:toc}

# September 19, 2016
The professor started the class by splitting the class up into 
pairs. Then, the pairs then evaluated resources based on several 
appeal factors, or "how people choose books to read." My book was 
*Huckelberry Finn.*

## Community needs and selection
The professor noted that general interests, work roles, education, 
demographics, technologies and resources that are already 
available, and other criteria.

### Terminology
* Community analysis

	* The article from Cronenberger & Luck are important to 
note as they find there can be informal and formal methods of 
community analysis done, giving different results.

	* Goals and objectives are critical to understand before 
going into the community.

* Information needs analysis

* Needs assessment

* Information audit

* Needs analysis

* User studies

* Market analysis

### Techniques

* Community walks

* Demographic data

* Observation 

* Interaction with other resources/collections in the area

# September 12, 2016	
The professor started the class by continuing the discussion about 
the longevity of libraries and their relationships and 
responsibilities to the communities in which they works.

## Evans and Sapanaro
The professor then moved to discuss the article from Evans and 
Sapanaro, noting that they make several important points. First of 
all, libraries are physical places. They are tasked with collecting 
important information, promoting literacy, organizing materials, 
providing assistance with research and locating materials, and 
preservation of information. The class noted that the contention 
that libraries be physical places is a bit outdated. In many of 
their experiences, there are

It was noted that most of our discussions about collection 
development, we have to take inter library loan into account. 
Smaller libraries rely on JIT (Just In Time) delivery where they 
can request items from partner libraries. Larger libraries can rely 
on a JIC (Just In Case) approach where they can hold items for 
users, even if those items are never checked out.

## Assignment 1
The professor noted that there are several important things to take into account when 
evaluating a resource.

* Format (print, electronic, illustrations) 

* Scope (purpose, coverage, currency) 

* Relation to similar works (unique, new edition, conference proceedings)

* Authority (who is the author, editor, publisher)

* Treatment (accuracy, objectivity, intended audience)

* Arrangement (sequence, indexing) 

* Cost (price, licensing - especially with state government)

My book is *Debates in the Digital Humanities*, a digital book 
published to address some of the changes in the field.

## Electronic collection building
The professor then discussed what factors to take into account when 
building an electronic collection. These digital sources include 
full text databases, e-books, digitizing existing books (Project 
Gutenberg or Google Books), numeric databases, institutional 
repositories, music, art, law, medicine. 

### Issues with electronic acquisitions
The class noted that licensing is probably the most important thing to take into 
account when looking to expand your collection. The professor noted that licensing also 
includes a lot of connected concepts. There are ownership issues, access issues, 
payment differences, support, and a lot of other technical issues that are intertwined.

The professor then moved to discuss to some of the issues 
encountered when adding materials to your library in general. These 
issues include issues in content, access, support, cost (ROI), 
legal issues, and many other interconnected issues that cannot be 
separated from the content. 

### Leasing vs. ownership
Some of the advantages to leasing includes a built-in support 
system where you are not liable for outages or other technical 
issues. A disadvantage to this, however, is that if that product or 
company fails, you are powerless to do anything.

## Acquisition terms
The professor then noted several important acquisition terms:  

* **Aggregated package** - Content which is based on agreements 
between vatious publishers and the aggregator. The content is not 
always stable and titles may change.  
* **Aggregator** - A third party providing full-text access to 
articles, books through common interfaces.  
* **Embargo** - Limitations on access to a resource usually to 
prevent cancellations of individual subscriptions. An example of an 
embargo is when a publisher website provides current issues of a 
specific journal while an aggregator will only provide issues older 
than one year. These lengths vary and in some cases can be 
considered a "moving wall."  
* **Ephemera or fugitive material** - Matieral of everyday life 
that is not usually collected. Items such as pamphlets, fliers, 
performance programs, and comic books can be considered ephemera or 
fugitive material. The class noted that these items are often 
collected by university repositories and stored in applicable 
special collections, but this is not part of what most libraries 
collect. 

## E-book package analysis
The professor then projected a comparative list that details an 
e-book package price list and discussed some of the caveats that go 
into this offer. The class also noted that while sometimes the 
Devil is in the details, in the case of this price list, there may 
be small benefits that are in the details that aren't as easily 
articulated, but are critical to differentiating between them.

# September 7, 2016
The professor started the class by noting that she has uploaded a 
reading schedule document to Sakai that we can use to read ahead 
and anticipate when assignments are due through the end of 
September.

Additionally, she noted that the assignment instructions are 
usually listed next to the schedule, but in most cases, they're all 
due on Sakai.

## Assignment 1 information
The professor then discussed the overview of Assignment 1. She 
noted that it is difficult to narrow a review down into something 
that's 350-500 words, but it **can** and **should** be done for 
practice writing in professional settings.

Implied from the assignment type, the professor noted that the tone 
of the resource should be directed towards influencing or 
encouraging the administration or procurement team. It was also 
noted that it should be a title with which we have not previously 
read, but a subject in with or an author in whom we are interested. 
This assignment is also to encourage us to publish without having 
to write entire articles or chapters.

## Group work
The professor then split up the class into groups based on which 
articles that people read for this meeting.

## Collection selection criteria
In introducing the German library system, the professor projected a 
presentation of several collection development policy differences. 
Despite these, all libraries can use these criteria to make a 
better collection: 

* Format (print, electronic, illustrations) 

* scope (years, geographic, topical) 

* Relation to similar works (volumes, series)

* Authority (who is the author or publisher)

* Treatment (accuracy, objectivity, who is intended audience)

* Arrangement (sequence indexing)

* Cost (price, licensing, especially with state government)
