Class notes - 556 (Archives and records management)
===================================================
# September 14, 2016
The professor started the class by discussing the two RAINN 
articles that were posted to Sakai. Additionally, the class began 
to talk about Facebook and censorship and linked it to Bill Gates' 
purchase of Corbis.

## Provenance
### Reference model for an Open Archival Information System (OAIS)

> **Provenance information**
> This information documents the **history** of the Content 
Information. This tells the **origin or the source** of the 
Content Information, any **changes** that may have taken place 
since it was originated, and who has had **custody** of it since 
it was originated. This gives future users some assurance as to 
the likely reliability of the Content Information.
> Provenance can be viewed as a special type of context 
information.

### PREMIS (PREservation Metadata Implementation Strategies) 
Working group
> **Digital Provenance**
> Documentation of **processes** in a Digital Object's **life 
cycle**. Digital provenance typically describes **Agents** 
responsible for the stewardship of Digital Objects, key **events** 
that occur over the course of the Digital Object's life cycle, and 
other information associated with the Digital Object's creation, 
management, and other stages in its life cycle.

### METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard)
> **Digital Provenance Metadata**
> Information regarding **source/destination** relationships 
between files, including **master/derivative** relationships 
between files and information regarding 
**migrations/transformation** of its life cycle.

## Data provenance
> Data with uncertainty is used less, not at all or, if used 
cavalierly *unconscious or not* is a source of risk and 
contamination of knowledge and endeavor. 

**Provenance information is essential** Knowledge about confidence 
in the level of provenance is what makes it authentic.

> Process documentation is to electronic data what a record of 
ownership is to a work of art. (Moreau 2008)

## Principle of Original Order
The professor then discussed the principle of original order.

> Archivists should organize & manage records in ways that reflect 
their arrangement within the creation environment. 

There is some precedent in archival writings in the late 
19th-century in Italy, but it was noted that most of our modern 
concepts are most strongly influenced by the Prussian archival 
practices recorded in th elate 19th century. The most widely 
recognized articulation of archival description was the "Durch 
Manual" (Muller, Feith, & Fruin), originally published in 1898, 
translated to English in 1948.

### Why respect original order?
During the processing phase, it can take a long time to find an 
order, but often it's impossible to find. The importance of this 
is to find **context** and to show it to others.

> Archivists claim that providing contextual information is one of 
their main professional goals & source of value that they provide. 

## Context
1. A set of **symbolic expressions or representations**

1. **Objective or socially constructed characteristics & 
conditions**

1. Aspects of the **mental or physical state, disposition, 
intentions, identity or recent experiences of an actor*

## Nine classes of contextual entities
1. Object

1. Agent

1. Occurrence

1. Purpose

1. Time

1. Place

1. Form of expression

1. Concept or abstraction

1. Relationship

## Fonds
The professor then moved to discuss *fonds*, defined as...

> the entire body of records of an organization, family, or 
individual that have been created and accumulated as the result of 
an organic process reflecting the functions of the creator. 
(Pearce-Moses 2005, p. 173)

Some questions arise out of this theory, but at the very least, 
the collection arrangement should be done with an eye towards 
thinking critically about the creation. 

> In the case of the personal archives, 'the *fonds* of an 
individual is a site where personality and the events of life 
interact in documentary for.' (Hobbs 2001, p. 127)

### Fonds messiness
The fonds gets complicated when things are intellecturally 
constructed instead of just physically. Documents are often 
distributed across various systems, places, and owners. Other 
issues are rife when you get into series and higher levels of 
organization or abstraction.

### Series 
Series are designed to organize records and archives that have the 
same provenance and are designed to be together.

# September 12, 2016
The professor started the class by reminding students that they 
should read the RAIN articles that were recently posted to Sakai.

Also, the professor reminded the class that coming up in the next 
week, the class will meet at Davis library to take a tour of their 
records management practices.

## Archival education
The professor continued the discussion from the previous class 
about training and standardization of archivists and archival 
practice. The field of archival science is divided over how 
archival education should be taught. There are several debated 
issues and questions, including Where and how new archivists should 
be educated and whether or not there is a core archival knowledge 
base that should be learned by all incoming archivists. 
Additionally, to answer these questions, the approaches are varied 
over whether graduate education, training, or continuing 
education--or a mix of all three--should be implemented to address 
these concerns.

The professor projected a slide reading, "US Archival Education 
Highlights" and explained that in 1945, the first archival 
education program was created. Titled the "Modern Archivist 
Institute," the three-course curriculum continued well into the 
1960s until the number of classes rose into a required three-course 
sequence to be considered a professional archivist. In 1982, the 
Bentley Historical Library summer institute begins the field's 
movement towards research in archival science, changing the field 
for the SAA's MAS curriculum. 

### Archival research
Research, in its most basic form, has several main factors that go 
into the practice including an articulation of a problem, an 
establishment of hypotheses, a collection analysis and 
interpretation of data, and finally, the reporting of the found 
results. The professor noted that in some cases and depending on 
the type of research that's being performed, the order of these 
steps or factors can be drastically different. In SILS at UNC, the 
master's paper fills this need.

The professor noted that theory, method, and practice should be 
based on research that explores all archival functions, is well 
designed in the methodological sense (clearly defined terms, 
clearly operationalized concepts, measures that are valid and 
reliable), builds upon or refines earlier research, and draws upon 
or points to research outside of the discipline. 

### Continuing education 
Informally, students can continue to stay up on archival trends by 
joining the multitude of organizations, receiving the newsletters 
and reading new publications, attending conferences, and networking 
with other archivists in your respective fields or region.

## Authenticity
The professor then changed the topic to discuss the readings for 
this week that addressed the concept of authenticity. The 
definition was stated as,

> A record is what it purports to be and has not been subject to 
> manipulation, substitution, or falsification.

The professor noted that in the example of Taiwan, the situation 
gets "messy." There are constant questions about what is *original* 
and what is important to preserve. In their article, MacNeil and 
Mak discuss the complications that arise when looking at a work or 
collection. They argue that it must be true to itself, it must be 
an original work, and that there is a trustworthy statement of fact 
(fidelity). Examples included Miller's discussion of frescoes and 
censorship of Michelangelo's paintings by the Catholic church. This 
change is important to the piece as we know it now, but are these 
changes authentic? The class brought up the conversation of George 
Lucas' re-cut and re-released original Star Wars films. If the 
original was released in one form, but the creator goes back to 
change it into another form, is this change authentic? What should 
be preserved?

The class brought up the point that in this situation, the chain of 
custody, or progress of who owned the piece should be recorded and 
used in the evaluation of whether or not something is authentic to 
the original. Additionally, it seems as though the class is 
equating "official" government documents with "authentic" 
documents. It was noted that in some cases, the government will 
accept documents or issue documents that are copies while keeping 
the original in storage. In these cases, what we consider an 
"original" birth certificate may in fact be an "official" copy.

## Reliability
Authority and trustworthiness of a record creates the evidence for 
the concept of **reliability**. Records have the ability to stand 
for the facts and the entity of which it is evidence and treated of 
a fact in of itself.

Hilary Jenkinson's article discusses the chain of custody, a moral 
and physical defense, and closely connected to notions of 
authenticity and several other core archival concepts. The professor 
noted that Jenkinson was also in the film *Monument Men* and his 
theory was briefly noted in it.

## Principle of Provenance
The principle comes from the precedents set in archival writing and 
practices of other countries of the 17th-19th centuries. The first 
widely recognized articulation of the principle of provenance was 
the *respect de fonds* espoused in France in 1841. Essentially, 
this means that the records from a common origin or source should 
be managed together as an aggregate unit and should not be 
arbitrarily intermingled with records from other origins or 
sources. The class noted that this type of organization style helps 
tell a story about the collection and it also keeps things together 
chronologically. Additionally, arbitrarily grouping and moving 
things around to fit a theme distorts the original meaning or 
structure and can be considered revisionist history or ignorantly 
biased towards creating your own narrative.

The professor noted that provenance is also complicated with 
several situations. In the event that records are treated in the 
aggregate, making it complicated or impossible to definitively 
identify specific sources for all of the records. The one-to-one 
mappings seem to only exist in the theory of the collections, not 
in the actuality. Additionally, some people argue that different 
interactions are important to document, not simply one isolated 
moment of creation (e.g. those who influenced creation of records, 
those who received them, or custodians who transformed them over 
time). Also, important aspects of the "origin" of records aren't 
human-produced or correspondence between humans. Purchase records 
or other reports are important to our understanding.

# September 7, 2016
The professor started the class by discussing organization records. 
It was noted that these records can include interviews with or 
questionnaires to organizational members and involve several 
different steps in the records process. The professor noted that 
today's class will discuss data collection, analysis, evaluation, 
and implementation.

## Organizational and records analysis

In general the steps to successfully archive organizational records 
include:

1. *Records inventory* - Identify all series, their format, 
location, 
and purpose  
1. *Records appraisal and retention scheduling* - 
Discover evidential and informational value by analyzing the 
function and importance of the records and assigning time tables 
for destruction or transfer to archives.   
1. *Vital records program* - Ensure that critical records are duplicated and securely stored 
(off-site or in a vault)  
1. *Disaster planning and recovery* - 
Minimize disruption of normal business operations.

## Functions in archives
The professor noted that to have a successfully operating archive, 
you must take into account **administration and management** of the 
archive. In her opinion, the importance of administration is to set 
policy, plans, and procedures and successfully implement them. 
Importantly, in this discussion, the professor noted that on 
average, archives employ only two full-time staff. Because of this, 
the administration is one of the most important things that needs 
to be addressed before you can move forward.

Another important issue is **identification and retention** of the items in the collection. To get at this concept, two main questions arise:  
1. *Why* am I collecting this?
1. Why am *I* collecting this?

The professor noted two of these important questions relate to the size that your collection will grow to, the relevance or cohesion one collection has to another, and other questions that help you curb rapid expansion and prevent your collections from being  potentially unusable in the future. The professor noted that most importantly, by being selective, it allows you to "control the space" in which you are given to the best of your ability.

**Preservation** is also about "controlling the space," however, this concept relates to controlling the environment of the space. It also includes security, use, and other policies that relate to the overall health and longevity of the physical and digital holdings.

**Availability and use** are also important to take into consideration when 
creating and maintaining an archive. It was noted by the class, that 
preservation and access seem to be diametrically opposed and cannot exist 
together in a successful archive, but the professor didn't agree with the 
concept and challenged the class to reconsider *use* as part of the 
responsibilities of archivists that can be balanced with the proper policies.

**Public programs and advocacy** involves outreach, education, and 
cooperation with external groups and organizations to bring people 
into the collections. This not only is the importance of service as 
a basic ethical issue, but it also helps retain your job. If others 
see the importance and your collections become embedded within the 
community, they are less apt to take away or reduce your resources.

## Types of archival institutions
The professor noted that although archives are everywhere and that there are many different types of collections and collection policies, there are some similarities that bind them together.

## Professionalism and archivists
The class noted that there is an overall lack of knowledge about the archival profession and there 

The nature of archival work is directly related to the records themselves. It was noted that in some cases, governmental archival records serve all citizens as a check against tyrannical government (and some consider a bastion of a just society). Archival records also assures rights as individuals and collectively as a civilization to the ownership of our history. On the smaller level, community archives are usually characterized as mentoring opportunities where archivists collaborate with people in the community and help them record their collaborative evidence and record their memories.

Within the field of archival science, there are three distinct areas:  
1. **Theory** - Ideas that archivists hold about the nature of material.  
2. **Methods** - How to treat archival materials.  
3. **Practice** - How to apply theory and methods in the appropriate 
situations.  

To learn these fields, archival education attempts to address specific issues:
1. Debated issues:
	* Where should new archivists be educated?
	* How should new archivists be educated?
	* Is there a core archival knowledge base?
1. Mechanisms to address these issues:
	* Graduate education
	* Training
	* Continuing education





# August 29, 2016
## General discussion of records
The professor started the class by discussing the definition of a record, "Recorded information produced or received in the initiation, conduct or completion of an institutional or individual activity and that comprises content, context, and structures sufficient to provide evidence of that activity (ISO 15489, 2001, sec. 3:3)" or "Extensions of the human memory, purposefully created to record information, document transactions, communicate thoughts, substantiate claims, advance explanations, offer justifications, and provide lasting evidence of events."

## Discussion of Yates' book
The professor noted that Yates was one of the first researchers to look at the changes in managerial techniques and practices that were reflected in the records they kept. In her book, she discusses the changes in types of office, specifically main or controlling headquarter office. The class described the ``before'' office as small, one person, informal structure, relied heavily on oral communication, personal knowledge and expertise, and often ad hoc in its structures.''

The ``after'' office was described as analytic and less descriptive (meaning they looked at data that came from the periphery instead of pushing it out), a high reliance to departmentalization, a focus on growing or expanding the organization, there was a more formal structure, additionally, the leadership shifted from a reliance on individual knowledge to instead following a set framework or systematic management.
## Growth of information technologies and information management
Furthering on the discussion of changes in management techniques,
the professor noted that document storage and retrieval practices
and systems also changed drastically before and after WWI. The
organizational forms, document creation and reproduction, storage,
and many other concepts about written and generated documentation
were completely changed in the few years surrounding the war.
The professor also projected a time line of some of the changes
that occurred in the mid- to late-1800s, including telegraphs, typewriters and carbon paper, telephones, and various filing system techniques.
