--- 

layout: page 

title: Class notes - INLS 581 (Research methods) 

---

# Table of contents

* TOC GEN {:toc}

---

# October 24, 2016

The professor started the class by discussing research interviews 
and data collection for interviews. There are three distinct types 
of interviews.

1. Unstrutured interviews - Often used in conjunction with 
participant observation. Questions are generated on the fly in 
response to the interviewee's narration or observed behavior.

1. Structured interviews - Considered its own distinct mode of 
surveying. There are pre-coded response categories, with no 
deviation from the interview script. These are also typically 
analyzed quantitatively. Some strengths from this include a degree 
of control, a high level of reliability, these interviews are often 
faster, and, if done correctly, there is a minimal impact from the 
researcher. Some downsides include that there is a lack of depth in 
the answers, there is the possibility that you may miss concepts 
and answers may be partial. Additionally, there is often a lack of 
context and clarification that can make conclusions inaccurate 
later.

1. Semi-structured interviews - More standardization than 
unstructured interviews and there is less rigidity than structured 
interviews. These are used when research questions do not have 
simple or brief answers, when the researcher expects that 
respondants may need to explain their answers or give examples, or 
when context is critical to the understanding of the gathered 
information.

In semi-structured interviews, the researcher has an interview 
schedule, which will guide the interview but not dictate it. 
Initially, there is an attempt to establish rapport with the 
respondent. The ordering of the questions in SS interviews is often 
less important and the interviewer is more free to probe 
interesting areas that arise, following up with previous statements 
and is often more free to jump around.

There are three types of questions:

1. Open - *What is it like at the library?*

1. Directive - *Tell me about your work at the library.*

1. Reflective - *It sounds like you think that the library is a 
good place to work.*

1. Closed - *Do you like the library where you work?* In most 
cases, the professor noted, these are the worst kind of questions 
and should be avoided.

Other types of questions also can be used for interviews. They 
don't always have to lead to verbal responses, including talk-based 
interviews and drawing interviews.

# October 5, 2016

The professor started the class by discussing differences between 
mixed methods, qualitative methods, and quantitative methods.

# September 26, 2016
The professor started the class by discussing qualitative methods.

## Myths about qualitative research

* If words are used or produced as data in a project, it's 
qualitative research.

	* Truth: Qualitative DATA is not qualitative RESEARCH

* Qualitative studies all use similar data collection and analysis 
techniques

	* Truth: Qualitative research" is an umbrella term that 
encompasses MANY specific methods/methodologies.

* Qualitative research is less rigorous than quantitative research.

	* Qualitative research aims for "disciplined subjectivity", 
there are MANY quality checks involved

> Qualitative research is designed to discern how humans
understand, experience, interpret, and produce the social world. 
Emphasis is on rich description, actor's POV, context naturalism, 
and cases (vs. variables)

## Naturalistic research

There are several concepts that make up the naturalistic approach:

* Takes place in real-world settings

* The research does not attempt to manioulate the phenomenon of 
interest

* WIthin this broad approach, many different data collection 
methods can be used.

	* Observation (direct or participatory)

	* Interviews (open ended or other method)

	* ANalysis of artfacts and other existing contexts.

## Observation

In this type of qualitative research, the researcher's role may be 
complete participant (researcher status unknown to participants), 
observer-as-participant, participant-as-observer, or complete 
observer.

* Pros: Researcher gains first-hand experience and can record 
infomration as it occurs; unusual aspect or aspects that are 
"invisible" to participants can be observed; allows for exploration 
of sensitive topics.

* Cons: The researcher may be seen as intrusive; some information 
not appropriate to report; quality of observations depend on 
resercher's experience level.

## Interviews

## Content analysis of Artifacts and existing content

This type can include public and private documents, photographs, 
videos, art objects, software, film, etc.

* Pros: It gives the researcher access to language/words/creative 
expression of respondents; can be accessed any time; no 
transcription necessary in some cases.

* Cons: May be difficult to access and interpret; materials may be 
incomplete, inauthentic, or inaccurate

## Ethnography

Ethnographic research is a subcategory of naturalistic research. It 
was originally developed in anthropoligy as an approach to 
interpreting cultures and explaining how everyday evenys and 
details of experience in a particular setting and time create "webs 
of meaning for members of the culture". It can be applied to a wide 
variety of qualitative studies, so this term can cover a wide 
variety of studies.

The professor noted that ethnography gives you a clear, narrow 
focus or you can do an open-ended exploration of the issues. There 
are trade-offs between time and resources and the depth of insight. 
There are also differences between participant and non-participant 
approaches. There are also many ethical issues that come into the 
discussion, including confidentiality and anonymintiy, informed 
consent, conditions placed on access, and an observation fo 
questionable behavior.

### "Going native"

A term that was created dueing colonialism and is derogatory 
towards primitive cultures that represent earlier stages of human 
evolution. Now, the term is "over-rapport" and refers to when ae 
researcher loses objectivity and ability to critically analyze the 
culture being studies. This concept is actually a problem that is 
under debate in the field.



# September 14, 2016

The professor started the class by breaking students up into 
interest groups and encouraging them to share several things about 
their project:

* Research question

* Population of interest

* Chosen sampling method

> Share these items with the class, and share any challenges you 
> encountered or realizations you had during the process of 
> developing a research question and sampling plan.

My group agreed to do convenience sampling and

Our research question is:

> How do special collections reconcile intellectual and physical 
> arrangement?

Additionally, our challenges when choosing our research question, 
we had issues with the huge variety of fields, materials, 
organizations, and other things that fall under special 
collections. We founded we needed to be highly specific and narrow 
down our group and take a non-random sample to make sure we had an 
appropriate scope.

## Research quality

Sometimes, the question comes up, "Why not use the same criteria 
for all studies?" The professor noted that while it seems simple 
(all research is different), but it is more a philosophical 
discussion that was explained as a dichotomy between the positivist 
(quantitative) paradigm and the naturalist (qualitative) paradigm.

## Trustworthiness
**COPY THESE NOTES FROM THE SLIDES**

## Truth-value: Internal validity/credibility

> How can one establish confidence in the "truth" of the findings 
> of a particular inquiry for the subjects (respondents) with whom, 
> and the context in which, the inquiry was carried out?

> For quantitative studies: Are we actually measuring what we think 
> we're measuring? For experiments, can we confidently attribute 
> observed changes to our intervention?

> For qualitative studies: Do our data adequately reflect the 
> concept we're studying?

### Improving truth-values

To improve the truth values in your studies, it's important to pay 
attention to several factors.

**COPY THESE NOTES FROM THE SLIDES**

# September 12, 2016

The professor started the class by discussing Lab Assignment #1, 
which was due today in class or by midnight.

## Sampling part 2

The professor then started by talking about sampling techniques 
with an eye towards example situations. In this situation, the 
professor gave a short paragraph of text and asked the groups to 
evaluate whether a simple random sample, a systematic sample, a 
stratified sample, or a cluster sample would be the most 
appropriate for the situation. The class agreed that either the 
stratified or cluster sample are the best options, but it depends 
on what the research question would entail. If she's interested in 
looking at which age range is doing best or what the overall 
opinion is among a specific sex, it would make sense to take a 
stratified sample and use that to look into her question. If she 
wants to look at how each branch is doing, she could take a cluster 
sample of all of the branches or cluster those by region.

The professor noted that stratified samples have smaller numbers of 
groups while cluster samples tend to be larger numbers of groups. 
In her opinion, she thinks that a simple random sample would be 
best to address this population and to analyze the information.

## Non-probability sampling

> Any sampling technique that does not meet the criteria for 
> probability (random) sampling. Sometimes the goal is still 
> representativeness, but not always.

### Purposive sampling

Defined as elements that are purposefully chosen because of some 
characteristic.

* **Typical cases** - Looks at the full group and tries to select 
an approximate average or what the usual person is.

* **Maximize variability** - Focuses on getting the most varied 
group of people to sample.

* **Minimize variability** - Focuses on a minority or small group 
to find out information about that group. (e.g. "Why are people 
sad? What do they think?")

* **Extreme cases or opposite views** - Focuses on the outliers of 
the groups.

### Quota sampling

Defined as determining which characteristics are of interest and 
set a quota for each level of that characteristic.

Similar to stratified sampling, but the participants are not 
randomly selected.

* **Snowball sampling** - The initial participants identify more 
participants. The professor noted that in many cases, the social 
networks of these people are what motivates them to hand out the 
materials.

* **Convenience sampling** - Choosing elements because they are 
easy to access. In this situation, the professor noted, this is why 
the most information is known about college-aged people because 
it's easier to choose from the large pool in colleges.

## Advantages and Drawbacks of non-probability sampling

**Advantages**

* Flexible

* Quicker and cheaper - you don't need to purchase a sampling 
frame.

* Can be precisely tailored to research goals.

* Generally the preferred method of sampling when looking at small 
populations.

* In many cases, there are higher participation rates.

**Drawbacks**

* There is a greater risk for bias

* There is no way to assess certain statistical measures

* May not be possible to appropriate or generalize (if this is your 
goal)

## Interest group activity

The professor then broke the class up into their interest groups 
and projected a slide:

> Earlier this semester, you started to develop a research question 
> in small groups based on some problems of practice you had 
> identified in your fields. In those groups, discuss:

* What types of "elements" would you be observing and analyzing - 
people, books, schools, etc.?

* Do you want to be able to generalize to a larger population that 
you can reasonably study, and if so, what is that population?

* Does a sampling frame exist for that population? If not, what 
could you use instead?

* What sampling techniques might you use to conduct this study? 
What are the benefits and drawbacks of each?

My group agreed that we would only focus on special collections 
with the population focus on archivists. From this, we could 
construct a sampling frame of special collections, starting with a 
convenience sample of all of the institutions of collections within 
the area. We reasoned that we could find some of these institutions 
from listservs.

Additionally, we reasoned that we could only focus on primary 
source materials that are physical objects.

# September 7, 2016

The professor started the class by noting that the discussion of 
sampling is one of the most important topics to discuss when 
writing research papers or theses. In today's class, we will talk 
about probability sampling.

## Why sample?

To begin to answer the question, the professor discussed the 
question, "Why even sample at all?" The class noted that to make a 
confident and accurate summary of a population or to prove or 
propose a useful theory, you must need the best sample group that 
you can do.

The class then answered the question, "What is the use of a study 
that doesn't aim to generalize beyond its sample?" The class noted 
several reasons, mainly relating to the point that the studies that 
do this are normally for exploratory studies. In many cases where 
they don't generalize, doesn't mean they can't.

To make this point, the professor projected a picture of a group of 
various "coconut" people. It was noted that **sample frames** are 
lists of statistics or information about the population in which 
you are studying. In this case, the image is not a sample frame. 
The frame itself is an abstraction of this image. **Population 
parameters** are the actual values or proportions in the population 
that are calculated from the sampling frame. Often (usually) this 
is not known for your variable of interest, but it can be derived 
through various sampling methods.

Two sampling methods include **probability (random) sampling** or 
**non-probability sampling**.

* Probability sampling means that every individual has a known, 
non-zero probability of being selected. Probability sampling 
depends on a sampling frame and must have one. In this type of use, 
all selection of random.

* Non-probability sampling is any sampling method that isn't random 
sampling.

In all cases, the professor noted, that unless you already know the 
exact population parameters, you can never be entirely sure that 
you have a truly representative sample.

### Simple random sampling

To do this, all you have to do is generate random numbers and to 
select the people who correspond with this number. When the 
sampling frame is compared with the actual parameters, there is a 
relatively good ratio when looked from top-down, but there are a 
lot of people missing. It was noted that this isn't the best when 
you're looking at representation.

Pros:

* Simple!

* Meets statistical test requirements

Cons:

* Small subgroups are not always represented

* Possible inadvertent clustering

### Systematic sampling

To do this, generate one random number to start on, then take every 
*n*th of the population. For instance, you role a 1d20 and select 
every 18th person in your list. The professor noted that in the 
end, you won't have a representative sample if the sampling frame 
has some sort of periodic pattern, but you'll have results, 
nonetheless. The professor noted that, with all of these 
probability samples, "Because you're taking a random sample, you 
have a good chance of finding a random bad sample."

Pros:

* Simple

* Ensures even coverage of a sampling frame

Cons:

* Hidden periodicity can create large errors

* Inadvertent clustering is still possible.


## Comparing stratified and cluster sampling

Stratified sampling is good for few subgroups and its implied that 
there is homogeneity within these subgroups. Heterogeneity between 
subgroups. Also, there must be random selection within each 
subgroup.

Cluster sampling is good for many subgroups, heterogeneity within 
subgroups, homogeneity among subgroups, and random sampling between 
groups.

### Stratified sampling

Divide thee population into strata, or groups, and then poll those 
groups. It was noted that it's important that the strata you choose 
should have some relationship to the study concepts or goals. If 
this concept is not taken into account, the group divisions are 
meaningless and can only distort your final outcomes.

The professor noted that stratified sampling frames are more 
expensive because they usually demand more work and more 
determinations to separate into the groups. Because of this, they 
aren't used as often and when they are, tend to be for larger 
studies or from larger institutions that can afford it.

Pros:

* Less errors

* Ensures all subgroups are represented

Cons:

* More expensive

* Sub grouping information can be impossible to obtain

### Cluster sampling

To use this technique, you take an initial sampling unit of groups 
(in some cases, they can be arbitrary). Then, taking these groups, 
you can then survey individuals in them. The professor noted that 
this sampling technique can skew your results and give you an 
inaccurate and non-representative survey of your population.

In the example on the board, if one of the groups is all men and 
another group is all women, you've already mis-represented your 
population because it appears that there are way more men than 
women. The sample frame differs completely from the population 
frame.

Pros:

* Reduces cost

Cons:

* High error if subgroups are different from each other

* Statistical analysis is more difficult because the math changes 
due to weighted clusters

## Non-responses and "dead to me" subjects

The professor noted that some individuals do not respond to your 
survey from the onset or drop off halfway through. The importance 
of this is that if the non-responses are representative of your 
remaining sample and you still have an adequate sample size, the 
study will not be negatively impacted. The professor noted it is 
often impossible to know how these people feel about your survey, 
but looking for commonalities that link them together can give you 
actionable information.

# August 31, 2016

## Grounding the project: Theories and models/literature reviews

The professor started the class by discussing a framework for 
analyzing academic literature and to define what "theory" means. 
Following the intro, the class broke off into groups to discuss 
Kulthau's article from 2012, *Information search process*.

Questions posed to the class include:

* How would you describe this theory? Is it descriptive, 
predictive, explanatory, or some combination of these?

* What are some of the key concepts of this theory? How do they 
relate to each other?

* Does this theory have any testable propositions? If so, how might 
you test them?

* What could this theory help LIS researchers do or understand? 
What could it help practitioners understand?

## What is a theory?

Before getting into what a theory is, the professor discussed 
several interconnected and related terms that are important to know 
beforehand.

* A **paradigm** is defined as a broad, foundational assumption 
shared by essentially all researchers in a field.

* A **metatheory** ia a theory concerned with the investigation, 
analysis, or description of theory itself; ideas about how concepts 
in a field should be thought about and researched.

* A **theory** is a system of assumptions, accepted principles, and 
rules of procedure devised to analyze, predict, or otherwise 
explain the nature or behavior of a specific set or phenomena. A 
theory appears in abstract general terms and generates more 
specific hypotheses.

* A **model** is a tentative ideational structure used as a testing 
device.

## Group work
The class then broke off into groups again to discuss "possible 
study topics" from our discussion on Monday.

**Intellectual vs. physical presentation of archival materials**

Related disciplines:

* Physical conservation

* User expectations

* Ethical considerations

Where to search:

* Existing collections

* Conversations with archivists

Search term suggestions:

* Presentation

* Cooperation between collections

* Contextual relationship

* Artifact integrity

* Best practices

Ideas for narrative

* The group did not fill out this information
