--- 
layout: page 
title: Class notes - INLS 582 (Systems analysis) 
---

# Table of contents

* TOC GEN 
{:toc}

---

# October 4, 2016

The professor started the class by discussing flowcharts and 
workflow modeling. Flow charts are the most common form of process 
modeling. 

## Activity models (UML)

> Similar to flow charts, but it includes emphasis on **which 
actors** (users or system components) do which actions, and the 
**hand-offs between actors**.

It was noted that UML is a thousand page specification and there 
are a plethora of different symbols that can be used. There are 
several different activity components that are concepts required 
for starting a model.

* **Swim lanes** - Organizes actors by actor (person or system). 
Can be displayed vertically (read from top to bottom) or 
horizontally (read from left to right).

* **Initial state** - Where the process starts. Indicated by a 
solid point or circle.

* **Final states** - The *activity final* or the end of the 
activity is a point surrounded by a circle. A *flow final* is the 
end of a single path and is represented with a hollow point with an 
X in it. The professor noted that this indicates the end of the 
model, but not necessarily the end of the activity.

* **Action** - A step in the process. This is represented by a box 
with rounded edges.

* **Transitions** - Paths between two actions

	* **Control flow** - Indicates flow of control or 
responsibility or sequence of actions. Represented by an arrow 
pointing to different action boxes.

	* **Object flow** - Indicates passing an object or 
information 
artifcat. This is represented by a larger box with straight edges.

* **Transition connectors** - Diagram with lots of transitions can 
become complex. The connectors are essentially "goto" indicators.

### Time in UML

Unlike many other process models, the activity model can incldue 
temporal aspects of the process. These are usually made to 
represent delay and are represented by an hourglass symbol on top 
of the control flow arrows.

Additionally, a flow can start with an hourglass symbol as a 
**trigger** to indicate the start of an activity.

### Decision diamond

Decision diamonds indicate decisions in the model. It is 
represented by one path in, at a diamond, with multiple paths out. 
The output paths are then labelled with guard conditions, meaning 
they are complete and mutually exclusive. 

### Convergence diamond

Merge diamonds indicate where two or more paths have the same 
result. It was importatn to note that convergence diamonds cannot 
be then used to output decisions.

### Synchronous (parallel) paths

A **fork** indicates multiple paths from an activity that must be 
followed simultaneously. A **join** or **sync** indicates when 
multiple paths must all be completed before the next activity can 
start.

# September 29, 2016

The professor started the class by discussing the upcoming homework 
assignments due next week. The Information Gathering Plan for the 
team project is due on Tuesday (Oct. 4). The class today will be 
discussing artifacts and systems related to organize artifacts.

## What is an artifact?

> Artifacts are **tangible things people create or use** to help 
them get their work done ... An artifact reveals the assumptions, 
concepts, strategy, and structure that guide the people who work 
with it ... **Artifacts can be bought ... or created on the fly**

This can include calendars, post it notes, paper, and even stone, 
electronic, fabric, etc. as long as the tool helps people get 
things done. The class also noted that radio or TV show recordings, 
text messages, tweets, etc. can all be considered artifacts. 

The important characteristics include:

* Artifacts are **tangible**

* An artifact acts as a **container of content** - The professor 
noted that this definition implies a life-span longer than 
unrecorded speech.

* An artifact is a form of **external memory** - It is a means of 
communicating and/or preserving information.

* An artifact is **associated with a work process** - Work is 
defined broadly. It can include recreation, leisure, and other 
things we might not consider "work".

A successful artifact **supports the work process**. An 
unsuccessful artifact **interferes** in some way. These can need 
additions, annotations, deletions or other modification. Causes 
include that it is confusing or in a format that is awkward.

When trying to define artifacts, we need to include...

* **Structure** - Form, grouping, order, spacing, formality and 
other characteristics.

* **Intent** - What is the purpose of the artifact is, who uses it, 
and how it fits into the work flow, and what its role in the 
information is.

* **Content** - Information in/on the artifact

* **Life cycle** - artifact source, destination(s), changes along 
the 
way

* **Relationships** among these components

### Usefulness of artifacts

Artifacts are good sources of information about the current system, 
breakdown, task requirements, peoples' job roles and 
responsibilities, etc. If possible before an interview, you can 
study the artifacts to prepare and get you ready to observe how 
they are used during the interview or as a prompt for other 
questions.

It is important to obtain the artifact at different points in its 
life cycle. From the initial creation, as it is in use (multiple 
users? steps in the worklow), when it is "finished" and how it 
travels from one step to another. It's also important to observe 
the artifacts in formal and informatl uses. For instance, a meeting 
agenda may also be used for a todo list. It's important to note why 
this happens and what event triggers the change.

### Questions from artifacts

Artifacts help answer questions such as:

* **How well does the artifact fit with the workflow in which it is 
used?** Is the usage obvious?

* **How well does the artifact fit with the information it 
contains?** Is the information well organized and understandable? 

* **How well does the artifact support its intents?** Is the 
purpose clear? Is it trying to support several inconsistent 
intents?

# September 27, 2016

The class began by discussing the upcoming homework. The professor 
noted that students should have begun dividing up current work 
among groups.

## Work model concepts

The professor then moved to discuss how work models can assist us 
understand work flows. They represent tasks, processes, workflows, 
actions, decisions, and more.

### Functional decomposition

Some graphical models give functional decomposition and allow us to 
think critically about tasks and subtasks.

> The endpoint will be individual steps that can be implemented in
the system. In a way, it takes big concepts and allows you to break 
it down into actionable steps.

Functional decomposition illustrates the concept of *leveled 
models*. These are a representation of levels of specificity or 
detail and allows "zooming in and out" from seeing the big picture 
to see the specific details.

When designing work models, you must first represent the *happy 
paths*, a sequence of steps (user and system) that results in the 
desired outcome. Then, represent the *unhappy paths*, or sequences 
of steps that don't work (breakdowns).

> You can't think of all the possible unhappy paths - focus on the
ones you've observed or that are most frequent. These are the ones 
the system should handle and/or seek to prevent.

## Unified Modeling Language (UML)

UML is a set of processes and models for system analysis and 
design. "Unified" because UML is the result of merging 3 earlier 
(and similar) approaches for object-oriented modeling. There are 
different "degrees" of UML use, including sketching alternatives, 
developing blueprints, and designs for program architecture and 
modeling. The professor noted that for this class, we will only 
discuss the sketch and blueprint uses.

## Use cases

> The term "use case" is overused.

The professor noted that in some cases, it refers to a broad 
overview like a scenario and is similar to a business case to 
describe and justify the system development. In UML, there is a 
more specific definition that often takes into account lower-level 
issues. You can also graph use cases in diagrams or explain them in 
texts.

A use case models how users and the system interact, the boundary 
of the system, and the system sub-components and their interaction. 
At the model level, there can be a high-level overview and 
represent *what* has to occur without getting too granular.

There are many similarities between use cases and scenarios, but 
the key differences are that scenarios use star actors and has an 
invisible system, while use cases talk about system boundaries and 
sub-components, and can span many user roles.

## Group work

The professor then broke the class up into groups to create a 
high-level model of an example situation about a weather 
information website.

# September 20, 2016
The professor started the class by discussing models and modeling 
techniques. Importantly, models can include a representation for 
**breakdowns**, defined as "errors or failures, something that 
doesn't work well as it should/could, or an annoyance that creates 
extra work. In systems analysis, our goal is to identify and 
eliminate/minimize these breakdown events.

## Models
Alluding back to our models overview from previous classes, the 
professor noted that there are three high-level categories or types 
of models:

1. **Big picture models** - Brainstorming, visioning, imagining

1. **Work models** - Processes, procedures, workflows, decisions

1. **Content models** - Representations, organizations, 
arrangements, presentations


## Scenario based design

> Scenario-based design tries to manage the complexity of design 
> problem solving by
concretization. A scenario is a concrete story about use. (Carroll, 
2000 p. 22)

The professor noted that scenarios give you the opportunity to take 
a large, complicated question (like staff processes in a hospital) 
and narrow it down to a specific thing. In itself, it's not a 
complete way to understand a situation, but it can give you a good 
overview about what's happening at a specific point.

A scenario was compared to a **play script**. It's an intersecting, 
messy story that models real life. There are transitions, different 
perspectives, and different issues that arise in the overall 
narrative.

Scenarios also allow us to explore the consequences of design 
decisions. We can see job responsibilities, procedures, resources, 
timing, and understand the individual parts of the system and the 
system as a whole.

The professor noted that within the scenario discussion, we need to 
make sure we don't forget to consider **transitions**, where most 
design failures happen (between actors, between tasks).

Important components to consider in scenarios:

* **Settings** or environments

* **Agents** or actors

	* May include major *systems as actors*, if desired

	* Actors often *instances of a persona*
	
	* Generally a *star actor* that is the primary focus

* **Goals** and objectives

	* "What is the actor trying to accomplish?"

* Sequence of **actions** or events

### Scenario example

In a physics lab, there are several parts that can be modeled 
easily.

* Settings
	
	* Physics lab equipment room

	* Offices

	* Coffee shop

	* Classrooms

* Actors

	* Instructor

	* Lab manager

* Goals
	
	* Item checkout for maintenance

	* Item return

	* Reserve items

	* Audit/check usage information

* Sequences of actions

## Personas

> Personas can help **bring users alive** (Holtzblatt, p. 181)

> A persona is a **one-page textual description of a typical user** 
> ... an amalgam of
elements drawn from several users who share common job roles, 
demographics, and user need characteristics. (Holtzblatt, p. 182)

It was noted that in this definition, there is a prototypical 
construct of "students" or "professors" that we can list common 
principles that serve as **classes of users**. Again, this is a 
level of abstraction that, like scenarios, can help us understand 
large problems better. Personas can serve as agents or actors in 
one or more scenarios, linking the two. In the physics lab example, 
the lab manager and the instructor serve as the personas that we 
can use as stand-ins for real people later on.

When creating personas, it's a good idea to use a small number of 
major players or actors that represent the **most common or 
important users of or participants in your system**. It's also good 
to consider **diversity** to cover all major users that may be 
related to the problem or solution.

The process of building/constructing personas is relatively 
straightforward.

1. **Draw on data** from interviews and observations

	* Group the general types of users with similar profiles

1. **Identify** each persona's goals, roles, and tasks

1. **Write** a persona definition

	* Name the persona so that it makes sense in your model and 
has a real-world corollary

1. **Use** the persona in analysis and design

## Group work

The professor then broke the class up into groups to discuss an 
example situation of a walk-in computer help desk at a university 
Student Union.

# September 15, 2016
The professor started the class by again discussing the Project 
Description project due next class on Tuesday. Additionally, there 
will be a calendar of recommended progress. See the slides for this 
day for more information.

## Project management

Previous to this class, we talked about different aspects of 
project. In today's class, we'll talk about the challenges with 
predicting and planning projects.

The professor noted that when it comes to projects, there are 
several maxims:

> Planning = prediction

> Time = Money

> Time = Tasks + People + Resources

### Project management activities

* Planning

	* Project goals, process, resources, benchmarks, milestones
	
	* Proactive step

* Monitoring

	* Situational awareness for project team, stakeholders

	* Progress, delays, barriers, risks

	* What is working, what isn't working

* Adjusting

	* Noticing changes
	
	* Changing plans, resources, etc. to accommodate change

	* Proactive and reactive

### What needs to be managed?

The **scope and goals** of the project need to be set by setting 
reasonable expectations, avoiding project creep, and matching 
resources to scope.

The **tasks** also need to be defined. You need to figure out what 
needs to be done, decomposing larger tasks into smaller pieces and 
specific assignments, and by identifying task dependencies. These 
can be **sequences** (Task 1 must be completed before Task 2 can 
start) and **parallels** (Task 1 and 2 are independent and can be 
done simultaneously.

The **schedule** needs to be clear. The task duration and 
completion date need to be included with the milestones and 
deadlines. This also takes into account slack time and crunch time 
(critical path).

The **people** need to also be managed where you take into account 
needed skills, task assignments, working within other commitments, 
and preventing over or under utilization.

**Other resources** need to be managed, including rooms, equipment, 
training facilities, etc.

**Risks** also need to be managed and monitored. It's crucial to 
identify these risks and communicate them with your stakeholders. 
Additionally, you need to identify champions.

**Results** need to be managed, namely establishing and clarifying 
deliverables. It's important to establish and effectively meet the 
criteria set down in the initial planning phases. It's also 
important to demonstrating a commitment to success.

**Budgets** need to be managed, including the direct and indirect 
costs, fixed costs (one-time costs, e.g. equipment purchasing or 
software licensing), and variable costs (vary in proportion to time 
or activity, e.g. cloud computing usage fees).

### Cost categories

These categories are applicable to both project and operation 
budgets, including equipment, supplies, personnel, travel, system 
back up, etc. After we get these estimates, there needs to be a 
project justification for the question **is it worth the expense?** 
This is usually a monetary question, but also has qualities or 
intangibles that may be relevant (good will, reputation, staff 
retention) and takes into account actionable metrics (ROI, 
cost-benefit analysis and ratio of benefits to costs, and "bang for 
the buck"). Additionally, the question **is it worth the effort?** 
is an important question. If it does positively affect the 
organization, there may be underlying issues that aren't taken into 
account (opportunity cost, offset work, etc.)

## Group work - Project planning
The professor then broke the class up into groups to discuss 
specific tasks, resources, people and create a schedule with 
milestones and deliverables for the project.

# September 13, 2016
The professor started the class by reminding that there is an 
assignment due in one week on September 20th. Primarily, this seems 
like a labor intensive group work project.

## Contextual interview overview
The professor then moved to discuss contextual interviews, which 
were compared to the interviews that were taken last class where we 
asked our partners about the details of their commute. It was noted 
that in contextual interviews as framed by this class session, the 
question process is a bit more difficult.

For a basic framework, there are three parties: the interview, the 
interviewer, and the task at hand.

> Contextual Inquiry seeks to provide rich detail about customers
by taking team members into the field. Once there, apprenticeship 
suggests an attitude of inquiry and learning. (B&H, p. 46)

The professor noted that to have a successful contextual interview 
session, we have to see the user as the expert and the analyst or 
designers are the apprentices. "We're here to just observe and 
learn how you do things."

In some cases, however, it isn't possible to observe directly. 
Sometimes safety, confidentiality, or physical space are limiters 
that make it difficult to get a first-hand experience. Examples 
include surgery, ambulance or rescue situations, battle, 
lawyer/client privilege interviews, etc. In situations like these, 
the best substitute includes interviewing immediately after the 
event when its fresh in someone's mind, video tape the event with 
the user (perhaps with faces/words obscured), or increase the 
number of interviews. In these cases, you're seeking **saturation** 
or the point where you're not learning anything new. The professor 
also noted that in situations like this, an intimate relationship 
with a user can help you in the future to have greater access for 
other projects.

## Principles of contextual interviews
### Context of workplace
You have to be there to see it and understand it.

* An immersing first-hand experience with real examples give you a 
better understanding of the situation and can contextualize what 
the user is talking about later on.

* Artifacts, layout, and physical objects give you a better idea of 
how the work takes place and what is critical to the user's work.

* Pace of work, interruptions, and time pressures can be more 
directly observed and re-weighted depending on the situation.

* Helps you grasp intangible or unspoken factors like work culture, 
personal difficulties, and more "sticky" things that need to be 
experienced to understand.

### Partnership
You and the user have to each have your own expertise and learn 
from each other.

* **You learn about** the job, tasks, problems and breakdowns, and 
the culture and values.

* **The user learns about** what you need to learn and how to 
contribute to the project in addition to what the possibilities for 
a new system can help improve their job.

* **You each view the job differently** - Your goal is to 
understand the current system and design a better system. The 
user's goal is to get the work done.

* **Collaboration** helps you both to learn and to improve 
workflows.

### Interpretation
You need to interpret what you have seen

* Take individual facts, observations, and try to find patterns and 
relationships.

* Ask questions. Suppose in the middle of a task, the user has to 
consult a colleague. Why? Clarifying or leading questions can be 
helpful in this situation and include "to check on how to do it? to 
ask permission? feedback? needed information? make plans for 
lunch?" and "why did this happen at this time in the task? where 
does this information come from? are there other needs?

### Focus your attention on what you're seeing
Keep you and the user focused on the task at hand, but if you focus 
too much, you may not be open to really seeing and learning.

> Don't eliminate the possibility of learning something that is not
directly related, but is important to understanding the problem or 
designing the news system.

### Be aware!
* Be comfortable with admitting ignorance and asking questions

* Be aware of and beware of your assumptions

* Surprise is a good thing! It can lead to more research directions 
or opportunities that can lead to better situations.

## Interview preparation
The professor noted that there are many questions and prep work 
that needs to go into the situation before interviewing people.

These include:

* **What** do you need to learn? Setting goals helps, but surprises 
are inevitable.

* **Why** is it important? Will it help you understand the problem, 
context, user needs? Will it help you design the new system?

* **Who** can give you the information you need? It's advised to 
start with a client contact, consider work roles and tasks, consult 
the organization's hierarchy chart, and then schedule interviews 
with accessibility or ability to meet in mind.

* **Snowball** effect. Use one interview to chain to another person 
to get information from another colleague that would normally just 
ignore your email.

Additionally, the question comes up, "**How many** people do you 
need to talk to? It really depends on your situation. If you 
observe similarities, you've reached saturation, a good place to 
be. Also you have to be mindful of additional perspectives or 
stakeholders that might need to be considered including the time 
that you or others have to spend on the interviews. The goal isn't 
to get interviews, but to get information. If they run out of time 
or information for various reasons, it's okay to stop.

**Preparing in advance** can help you better understand the problem 
definition, set clear interview goals, examine possible artifacts 
or documents to help add context to the current situation, and find 
our history or success of past projects, if possible.

**Planning** will help you capture what you learn in the 
interviews. Consider having two interviewers, one to ask questions, 
one to take notes, and both to observe. Also consider what types of 
notes or diagrams you will have in the interview session. Some can 
be distracting, while others are critical to the interview. 
Consider what types of sound or video recording can take place. 
This also comes with acquiring and explaining consent between the 
interviewees or clients. Along those same lines, photos that can be 
used later on can be of great benefit to your study, but need to 
have permission.

## Interview structure

1. The conventional interview

	* Get acquainted

	* Explain your purpose for your being there

	* Allow interviewee to express ideas or opinions at the 
start

2. The transition

	* Explain how the contextual interview works

3. The contextual interview itself

4. The wrap-up

	* Summarize what you have learned, let the interviewee 
comment or correct your impressions

	* Describe what happens in the next steps of the project 
(follow up, additional interviews and interviewees, snowball)

## Asking questions
There are several different types of questions that you can ask in 
the contextual interview session.

* Task related questions
	* Describe the steps in the task

	* Show documents or artifacts used in the task

	* Location of original information and destination

* Object-related questions

	* What is a ... - Specific clarifying questions.
	
	* What do you call this ... ?

	* Are there other things like this?

	* What do you do with it? What do others do with it?

	* What do you dislike/like about this?

Asking about relationships between people, artifacts or processes, 
processes, definitions, information, and other interpretations can 
be very revealing and can help the interviewer get more 
information. In addition to open-ended questions, restating what 
the interviewee has previously said can lead to more information. 
Additionally, try to fit what you've heard into what you know (or 
think you know). For example, "So *this* thing is related to *that* 
thing because they both *something*..." This helps you clarify 
things in your own mind and allows an opportunity for the user or 
interviewee to correct assumptions that might not be accurate. The 
professor also noted that it's okay to interrupt the user if 
they're trailing on or if you don't understand something they're 
saying. It's a huge waste of time to let them continue if you don't 
understand what's going on.

## Observation
It's important to look **upstream**, finding where the work comes 
from, what triggers or cues specific reactions. Also, 
**downstream** information is important to see where the work goes 
upon completion. **Why** and **how** things are done helps you 
understand side effects or reasons behind what they do.

## After the interview
Thank the interviewee, use at least an hour immediately after the 
interview to review, record, and write down additional questions. 
It's important to record your gut feelings or impressions because 
they can be easily lost. Share what you know what your team 
members, ask additional questions to the interviewee, and plan next 
steps for follow-up interviews or other avenues of research.

## Other information gathering techniques
* Focus groups

	* Can talk to more people than an interview

	* Can hear how people react to what other people say

	* But, there's a risk of group-think or self-censorship

* Examining artifacts: documents, tools, objects

* Competitive analysis

	* Examples of working systems in similar organizations

	* Best practices

* Literature review
	
	* Case studies, trade magazines, vendor sites, tutorials, 
etc.

* Professional organizations

	* Webinars, white papers, conferences

* Surveys

	* Broad way of measuring high level concepts

	* The professor noted these are generally rare because they 
don't give you actionable or specific information that helps your 
research. Usually it requires follow-up.

# September 8, 2016
The professor started the class by reminding the students that 
there is an upcoming assignment that will be due within the last 
two weeks.

## Contextual design
The professor then gave a definition of **contextual design** and 
cited the textbook definition found on page 3.

### Who is the expert?
There are several different types of expertise that are required to 
successfully analyze and manage an information system.

1. Task/job expertise - The system users know how to accomplish the 
work that the system should support. 2. Technical expertise - The 
system designers and developers know how to design and build 
systems. 3. Managerial expertise - The managers know how to 
coordinate and prioritize multiple systems, jobs; negotiate for 
resources with upper management, understand organization's 
strategic goals, etc.

### Situational differences
The professor then noted several things that may occur in an 
organization that can make it difficult to successfully implement 
projects.

The **history of the organization and previous systems projects** 
can sometimes make management or workers jaded about previous 
failures. They may also be deluded that past success means that the 
same plan will work in the future.

The **organizational culture** may prioritize innovation or 
tradition and the management could be hierarchical or flat 
structures or a combination, making it difficult to draw 
comparisons between organizations.

**Stakeholder interests and concerns** can collude your success by 
competing issues.

**Available resources** may limit, including time, money, staff, 
etc.

**Nature and severity of the program** can make it difficult to 
work on the issue. If a critical system must remain online 
consistently

The **novelty of a problem or system** could mean that the 
organization could have a bespoke system that makes it more 
difficult to troubleshoot because each situation is different and 
has the possibility of never having been faced before by anyone.

## User centered design
The professor noted that there are competing ideas about how users 
needs and opinions should be incorporated in to the design of the 
system. Swan's article *Making place for clutter...* provides a 
basic overview of how to observe people working in their "clutter" 
and interviewed them afterwards. These interviews included 
questions such as, "Why did you do that?" and "What is your 
rationale for doing this?"

### Interviews
Interviews are some of the most important tools that researchers 
have when coming up with a user-centered design plan. These can be 
thought of as "richly detailed qualitative accounts" or "thick 
description" as they help researchers understand what they have 
observed and can help readers understand what the informant is 
trying to convey. It is noted that there should be an 
identification and narrowing down of what is important and relevant 
to the study. To do this, it requires **non-judgmental 
observation** from systems analysts.

After the interviews are taken, there are several steps that need 
to occur to **analyze and generalize** the information that you've 
received.

## Clutter
The professor then asked the class to define the term "clutter" 
found in the reading for this week. It was noted that it can be 
considered **residue**, or things that don't seem to go anywhere or 
have any immediate or obvious purpose. There are some 
characteristics of physical clutter that can be thought of as 
similar to **e-clutter** that can be thought of as your Downloads 
folder. Items are downloaded, sometimes used only once, and then 
are never looked at again. Other "miscellaneous" folders that, in 
some cases, can be an embarrassment for users.

The class noted that e-clutter and physical clutter have some 
similarities, but they are markedly different in outcomes. For 
instance, physical clutter gives you a level of locational 
abstraction that e-clutter doesn't allow. Additionally, e-clutter 
doesn't have a built-in value on its surface without thumbnail or 
other signifying marker. You have to open it to know what it is. 
The class also noted that the nature of digital files allow you to 
stash a lot of stuff without thinking about it. When physical files 
pile up, it becomes a much bigger reminder because it can be a 
barrier.

### Group discussion
The professor then broke the class up into groups to discuss 
symptoms and problems related to clutter that are in the workplace. 
The class noted that physical clutter in the workplace is often 
mixed with work-related material and personal documents. This 
mixture makes it sometimes more difficult to segregate and 
prioritize information that is needed in a pinch. Additionally, 
e-clutter is a huge issue in offices, particularly with Outlook, in 
that it can be very difficult to organize and keep track of 
messages coming in, particularly when working in teams or with a 
shared inbox. Other groups noted that text documents or excel 
spreadsheets get out of sync and often require a "librarian" or 
editor to piece together and merge the different files into a final 
master document. Other groups proposed that a move to centralized 
documents in the cloud with Google Drive could address these 
issues, but there are often institutional barriers (support, 
security, etc.) that make it impossible to move to something new.

## Contextual interview exercise
The professor then split the students up into one-on-one partners 
to practice interviewing each other for a task in which they are 
experts. Example activities include work activities or commuting to 
campus. There should be two interviews, we should learn as much as 
possible about the task, and then switch to learn something about 
the other person.

After the exercise, the professor noted that the most effective 
interview questions ask the responder to clarify or expand on what 
they've said. There's a narrative part, but then there's a 
clarifying stage where the interviewer gets more specific 
information about the general overview. These follow up questions 
are critical to the success of the interview, particularly if the 
interviewer is unfamiliar with the topic.

# September 1, 2016
The professor started the class by defining a few key terms.

* **Components** are symbols or structures that represent objects 
or concepts in the real world (e.g. shapes, words, icons)

* **Features** are characteristics of the components (e.g. 
represented by size, color)

* **Relationships** occur among components (e.g. time space 
authority, sending/receiving and by using layout, lines etc.)

* **Assumptions** are about the world being modeled. It's important 
to note that these assumptions can be both accurate or inaccurate.

## Communication functions
The professor noted 5 communication functions:

* **Conscripting** is an act that involves enlisting participation 
and eliciting reactions and comments (e.g. prototype website: Tell 
us how you like the new look!)

* **Coordinating** is expressing progress and the provisionality of 
solution states (e.g. Based on initial analysis, we have determined 
the breakdown is found in transition from proofreading to 
publication. Here is a flow-chart of the new process we propose)

* **Framing** is establishing or reaffirming a common ground, 
typology, or constraint field (e.g. We have determined that the 
problem lies in the information used in decision making. This 
decision table details the breakdowns.)

* **Persuading** is convincing a stakeholder, often a prospective 
client that the solution fulfills project requirements (e.g. 
Running this simulation model demonstrates how we avoid bottlenecks 
at high-traffic times)

* **Recording** involves keeping a record of the solution state so 
that it can be used by others in the future (e.g. Models can 
document design decisions, templates for future development, or act 
as user documentation or training materials.)

The professor noted that to avoid errors in models, you can 
proofread models just like you can proofread writing.
