---

layout: page

title: Class notes - INLS 757 (Archival Description and 
Arrangement)

---

# Table of contents
* TOC GEN {:toc}

---
# January 24, 2017

The professor started the class by discussing the connection 
between archival description and metadata. The question was posed 
whether these two aspects of records management are mutually 
exclusive. 

## Metadata

Defined as "structured information that describes the attributes 
of information resources (objects, things) for identification, 
representation, discovery, selection, use, access and management. 

For archival description, there are several metadata strategies 
that can be employed to best handle the material. 

In all cases, archival descriptive systems are constructed from metadata. Additionally, all archival descriptive systems are metadata systems. Metadata may be...

* Provided by the creator

* Found in the records & associated documents

* Supplied by an archivist

* Supplied by the system generating the records

* Generated by the user

## Recent trends in metadata and description

The professor noted that the emphasis of description has changed 
from physical to _intellectual_ control, from repository-centered 
to _profession-wide_ standards and practices, from access and 
descriptive tools designed for mediation to tools that end users 
can _access directly_, building adequate description directly into 
_recordkeeping systems_, ability for aggregated or federated 
_searching across_ repositories, _exposure_ instead of designing 
the perfect front page, and the user of _content management_ 
systems to ingest and organize documents and surrogates. 

## Models of Digital Archival Representation

There are several proposed models for digital archival 
representation: 

1. *Embedded Model* - The finding aid serves as a pointer.

1. *Segregated model* - The finding aid is a link to provide 
backtround information.

1. *Parallel model* - Uses both the online finding aid and the 
searchable item-level metadata to represent and display digital 
objects.

# January 17, 2017

The professor started the class by discussing several key

* **Original order** - Defined as "the organization and sequence of 
records established by the creator of the records." Additionally, 
it serves two purposes: preserving and 

## Intellectual arrangement vs physical grouping

The professor noted that arrangement by provenance is independent 
of physical grouping, meaning that archivists try to keep 
documents together in the collection which have been created 
together or share some similarities (author, time period, etc.). 

## Levels of control

There are several levels of control that 

* **Repository** - Divisions within the repository such as 
archives, special collections, etc.

* **Provenance** - (Record) Groups: Established on the basis of 
provenance with ...

* **Filing Structure** - Series is a body of file units or 
documents arranged in accordance with a unified filing system or 
maintained as a unit by the organization or individual that created 
them (albums, reports, bank statements, etc.). The professor also 
noted that some series are applied haphazardly and often are not 

* **Files/Folders** - Individual documents 

## Metadata

**Metadata** is defined as "structured information that describes 
the attributes of information resources (objects, things) for 
identification, representation, discovery, selection, use, access, 
and management." An **information resource** is anything that can 
be manipulated as a discrete entity by a human being or information 
system. **Administrative metadata** is used to manage and 
administer collections and information resources. Examples include 
acquisition information, rights and reproduction, location, etc.

## Preservation

For managing the long-term preservation of information resources. 
Examples include description of physical condition, conservation 
actions (repair, migration), or any changes to physical condition 
(bit rot, foxing).
