--- 

layout: post 
title: Digital humanities undergraduate course website 
published: true

tags: school 

---

For one of my classes, I had to write an overview of a course 
website for my conceptual undergraduate class, "Introduction to 
Humanities Computing." I wanted to have a site that fulfills the 
fundamental "ontological commitments" of Digital Humanities: 
openness, collaboration, collegiality and connectedness, diversity, 
and experimentation [(Spiro 
25-30)](https://paperpile.com/c/4O2eZN/FQSO/?locator=25-30). My 
class prioritizes digital publishing and this course site is the 
facilitator for this type of work. I will explain this concept 
further, but, simply put, I wanted this site be primarily a space 
where students could make their writings public and talk about 
their progress. The site I wish to create would have an inviting 
atmosphere for collaboration where all students feel connected to 
each other and their work is valued. Students should be able to get 
feedback on their work and feel comfortable giving feedback or 
suggesting changes, no matter how long the post is.

To best explain these concepts for the site, I created a blank 
Wordpress and added a blog post that I wrote for one of my classes 
for an example. I also wrote a few generic comments and questions 
from students and replied to them as if I was the professor. All 
content in the site example is mine except the theme, which was 
created by the Wordpress developers. I'll discuss a few different 
important parts about the site in the following sections and then 
I'll conclude by talking about how this type of site could benefit 
the students in the near future. I've provided screenshots of the 
site and explained the general concept of what each image 
addresses.

For the class Wordpress, I decided to use the [P2 
theme](http://p2theme.com/). This theme looks different from a 
traditional blog website in that it allows users to interact on the 
site as they would with Facebook. Where a traditional blog layout 
would focus on displaying only one post on each page, this layout 
uses a Facebook Timeline-type layout that displays everything on a 
(lengthy) single page. For me - and I'm sure this is the case 
for other students that grew up with technology - this layout 
is intuitive and it behaves in a way that I'm familiar with. The 
theme prioritizes real time communication and I chose to use this 
layout for my course website because it moves away from traditional 
static posts. In the past, I have been in classes where the site 
layout doesn't do any favors in getting a conversation started 
online. Students write an essay in Word and copy and paste it to 
the blog, they click "Save," and never look at it 
again. After that, they don't care enough about their classmates' 
work, so there's no reason for them to stay on the class site. By 
midterms, I find that these sites become a dumping ground for class 
essays. Usually, the professor implements a rule that each student 
must make one post and comment on three different posts to receive 
full points - an approach and an issue that I wanted to 
avoid.

The class website should be a place where students can go and think 
out loud about their work. I want to foster a place where students 
don't feel like they have to post huge essays or How-To guides 
every time they visit. A Tweet or Status Update posted on the site 
can be thought of as a comment made in class and I plan to grade 
students' participation based partly on their use of the site. The 
following sections will discuss my ideas for an ideal course 
website.

![Site screenshot 1](/images/2015-04-18-screenshot1.png)

A main part of this undergraduate class requires each student to 
write a 500 word blog post each week about the assigned readings or 
the tools that they used for that week. This is a crucial part of 
the course as it makes sure every student is keeping up to date on 
the weekly topics that we've discussed. It is also important for 
the students to pause and reflect on the work they completed during 
the week and to connect with other students about issues or 
concerns they might have. I feel that this reflexivity in research 
is fundamental to the completeness of one's work and I wish to 
foster that practice on my site. The grading for these blog post 
assignments will be subjective, but I will prioritize completion 
and whether they meet the deadline. I will never deduct points from 
a post if the student was unable to complete the task they wanted 
or if they received a different outcome. For example, if a student 
wants to import a logo into a map or timeline (as shown in the next 
screenshot) and find that the system has a bug, I find this process 
of exploration and "play" can often teach more than blind luck. 
Overall, if students are able to write a post explaining what 
outcome they wanted, the process they used, and the result of their 
work, they will be fulfilling the goals of the course.

![Post content example](/images/2015-04-18-screenshot2.png)

As shown in the screenshot below, students can post quick Status 
Updates on the site that can facilitate conversation or get 
technical help. This tool is almost like Twitter or a Facebook 
status that's meant to be quick, gut feelings or reactions. They 
don't necessarily have to be polished work like the Blog Posts and 
they certainly won't be 500 words long, but these informal notes 
are important to make students feel comfortable speaking their 
mind. When the longer assignments come, the students will build 
upon the positive experiences that they had previously.

![Status Update screenshot](/images/2015-04-18-screenshot3.png)

When the Status Update is posted, other students in the class can 
answer questions and have a conversation about whatever the topic 
is. They can help answer their classmates' questions and give 
feedback for projects on subjective issues of design and usability. 
This correspondence is important for group learning and is one of 
the Digital Humanities ontological commitments - two aspects 
I wish to address in this course.

![Conversation thread screenshot](/images/2015-04-18-screenshot4.png)

If the professor or Teaching Assistant wishes to communicate with 
the class, they have a space where they can give the students a 
public response. For example, in this type of public format, other 
students can read the answers given and can ask other questions for 
clarification. If students want to send a situation-specific 
question, they can always send the instructor a direct email or 
message through the course website.

![Conversation thread screenshot 2](/images/2015-04-18-screenshot5.png)

One of the advantages that this type of site gives is the ability 
to collectively organize the students' thoughts and to create a 
working, in-depth site for others to use. It would be ideal if the 
site could be a reference for other researchers who are working on 
similar projects with these tools. On every entry, students can tag 
their post so that it can be organized by category. Whether the tag 
is "visibility" or another conceptual issue, or a specific tool, 
visitors to the site can navigate and quickly find what they need. 
For instance, if a student writes about Omeka at the beginning of 
the semester and it gets buried by other posts, you can click on 
the entry for Omeka on the sidebar and quickly find the post. 
(Refer back to the first screenshot of the site.) If another 
student writes a response to an article and how it relates to their 
research, the post could be tagged according to the topic discussed 
or the journal from which it came. The syllabus explains that it is 
important to explain the students' research process, not simply 
give an overview or summary of a reading, so the student must 
emphasize how that reading is applicable.

I would like to keep the site private during the semester so that 
students can feel comfortable asking questions and thinking out 
loud. Whether they post something "stupid" or their ideas are good 
enough to be stolen, I wouldn't want their posts to be made public 
as they're hesitantly posting their ideas and processes only to be 
exploited by someone on the internet. When the semester is 
finished, I would ask for permission to make these posts public as 
I feel it can benefit other people working on digital projects. I 
would redact or delete any comment or post, if asked, and I can 
always provide the students an exported version of their posts. As 
everything that students post will be available on the internet 
after making the site public, I would need to make sure that they 
had a basic understanding about copyright and Creative Commons 
licensing that they can employ to protect their intellectual 
property. This discussion about ownership could be started as an 
in-class discussion supplemented with videos and other how-to 
manuals available on the internet.

Copyright aside, by making the site public, blog posts can be 
considered a form of digital publishing. As everything in academic 
work seems to be moving online, students can build their CV with 
these blog posts and have a tangible source to point to when 
listing their proficiencies. If a student writes a guide about a 
new tool that they were able to use for their research, a quick 
Google Search could associate Student with Marketable Skill. For 
example, if a student writes a quick guide on how to setup OHMS, a 
tool to work interactively with oral history recordings, a stranger 
could acknowledge their technical prowess about that newly created 
tool. The student's CV would reflect their proficiency and list 
their oral history project with a link to the class site. These 
connections could spur collaboration, career advancement, and 
goodwill with other researchers and users of new technologies. 
After the semester is completed, the course website can serve as 
more than an arena for communication and collaboration, it can be 
an example of a marketable digital portfolio where students can 
showcase their abilities.

This desire to make posts public is dual-purpose: (1) I feel it is 
an ethical responsibility as a professor to foster critical 
thinking about future career and academic plans. (2) I also feel it 
is important to demonstrate to students the applicability of the 
work done within the course to the "real world" they will be 
working in after graduation. Although it hasn't been the typical 
format for most academic classes (particularly in the humanities) 
up to this point, skills-based training is and will be crucial for 
the coming changes in the fields. When learning, students should 
understand the conceptual and the technical aspect of these new 
tools and often these two aspects are interchangeable. In a way, 
these concepts can be thought of as two sides of one coin. One 
could argue that disciplinary methodology is important and students 
should be taught Best Practices as a base and technology will come 
later. Others, particularly in STEM fields, may feel that the 
technology is the crucial lesson that should be taught - the 
rules will be learned.

I see that the best approach to this type of work views both 
technology and methodology as interconnected and interdependent. If 
a student has experience and understands the methodological 
importance of a timeline or mapping tool, technical training could 
be helpful. If one is resistant to put the time into detailed and 
technical metadata, a project in which specificity is required 
could change their perception on the issue (as it did for me). 
Digital Humanities should not follow division of traditional 
disciplinary lines: STEM is technology, Humanities and Social 
Sciences are methods. Courses that teach Humanities Computing 
should be critical of this split and work blend both disciplines 
into a workable and reflexive pedagogy. Although theoretical, my 
course as represented through this site is an extension of this 
type of teaching and can be considered an example of how to best 
introduce these new research practices to students.
