--- 
layout: post 
title: Collection policies and the "Middle East"

tags: school
published: true
---

For one of my classes, we looked over several collection policies 
to compare and contrast the different approaches to development. 
One of the collections that stood out to me was the [Middle East & 
Islamic Studies Collection](http://archive.is/ZHID2) at Cornell. It 
is was written in a way that there are no ambiguities for what to 
call the "Middle East."

> Historians, political scientists, and others have defined world
regions in terms such as race & ethnicity, culture, language & 
linguistics, religion, historical unity, climatic similarity, and / 
or geographic compactness. One of the first questions encountered 
by anyone who wants to study the region is what the "Middle East" 
is, specifically what countries it involves. There is, however, a 
lack of consensus on one single definition of a region that after 
all stretches over three different continents; and people even 
refer to it variously by such terms as "Near East," "Mideast" or 
"Middle East." In modern times, the designation "Middle East," was 
applied by Westerners who viewed the area as midway between Europe 
and East Asia, which they call the Far East. There is at least 
agreement over the view that the Middle East is more than a mere 
geographical concept and that there are compelling historical, 
cultural, religious, political, social, and economic reasons for 
considering it as an entity apart.

> It is not, for example, the land of the Arabs (millions of
Turkic, Indo-European, and Negroid peoples live in the region). It 
is not even, as many presuppose, the land of Islam (in terms of 
population and territorial size, the largest Islamic countries are 
outside of the traditional boundaries of the Middle East. 
Indonesia, India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan all have larger Muslim 
populations than any country in what we call the Middle East). 
Historically (most of Iberia was under Islamic control for the 
better part of 700 years, and most of the Balkans for almost as 
long) neither Spain, Portugal or Romania a Middle Eastern country.

The policy goes on to specifically organize the area geographically 
into "core" and "periphery" groupings. The periphery group is then 
broken down in to several smaller areas, with Cyprus being the 
outlier.

**The Core** - Bahrain; Egypt; Iran; Iraq; Israel; Jordan; 
Kuwait; Lebanon; Oman; Palestine; Qatar; Saudi Arabia; Syria; 
Turkey ; United Arab Emirates (federation comprised of seven 
sheikdoms: Ajman, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, 
Sharjah, and Umm al-Qawain); Yemen

**The Periphery**

* **The Caucuses**: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia;

* **Central Asia**: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

* **Horn of Africa**: Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia, Zanzibar (now 
part of Tanzania)

* **Maghreb**: Algeria, Libya, Morocco & the Western Sahara, 
Tunisia

* **Sahel & Sudan**: Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Sudan

* **South Asia**: Afghanistan, Pakistan

* Cyprus

This is a great delineation. In my current job, items from this 
region are sometimes difficult to catalog. Of course, after you put 
the country name and any relevant content information, the record 
becomes find-able to some degree. What makes it difficult is when 
people ask reference questions like, "*Can you find resources about 
contraceptive usage in the Middle East vs. Asia?*", or "*I need to 
find out about abortion rates in post-soviet countries vs. when 
they were a part of the Soviet Union.*"

At first, these questions seem easy, but when I start working, I 
run into issues with how people thought about the region when they 
catalog incoming materials. I may catalog a resource about a 
country based on a region, I might have a different interpretation 
of which regions to use or that the region even exists. I don't use 
the term "Maghreb" and I bet other people (outside of academia) 
aren't using that term on a regular basis either. I wouldn't 
normally tag something "Maghreb," but this descriptor may be useful 
to someone looking for resources from that area because it's more 
specific than "North Africa." Additionally, I wouldn't normally 
catalog new articles about Afghanistan or Armenia "post-soviet." I 
would just add "Middle East" and call it a day. In the second 
reference question that asked me to compare the former soviet 
states, it would have made my life a lot easier if I had added the 
post-soviet tag to some of those articles.

To make things worse, the tag "Middle East" could be used 
incorrectly or inappropriately because it's so broad. I've seen 
articles in our catalog about India tagged as "Middle East." I 
scoffed as I went in to change the tag, but then I started to 
think. India has a lot in common with Pakistan. Let's not even talk 
about culture or demographics. I'm talking about by some rubirics, 
both are considered "South Asia." It gets even more confusing when 
I try to define "South Asia" and where to draw the line between it 
and the "Middle East." There's an overlap, but where do these 
regions begin? Don't even get me started on Russia.

These seem easy, right? You might have an idea in your head about 
some of these issues. You might have a great way to remember which 
countries go where. That's the problem! *You* have an idea, but the 
person sitting next to you thinks completely differently about what 
countries go into the "Middle East."

In our catalog, we find that regional terms like "Middle East" are 
a mixed bag. In some cases, they're useful. We can sometimes pull 
up relevant information for patrons who need to compare the region 
to other regions. In other situations, that term does us no favors. 
As Cornell's policy stated, there's something more to the term than 
just geography. In our library, that *more* is complicated. While 
you may have an idea what *more* is, someone else has an idea 
too.

Cornell's got their definition. That delineation is great for their 
collection. If we're talking about practicalities, big regional 
terms like that aren't very useful for our work and we think we 
should just get rid of them. When we do research, if we rely too 
much on our understanding of the term, we might be missing out on 
some great resources that fell between the cracks. A cataloger 
(like me) might just back away from the "India is in the Middle 
East" problem and make things complicated for someone in the 
future. At the end of the day, for us, "Middle East" is as helpful 
as "Africa."


