---

layout: post 

title: KanbanFlow basics 

published: true

tags: tech, productivity 

---

KanbanFlow is a personal task management website that takes your Kanban board to the next level! I’ve been using it for a few months and I 
absolutely love it. It has some cool features that can really improve your workflow and combines task management with time management.

To sign up and get started, visit [https://kanbanflow.com/](https://kanbanflow.com/)

![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow homepage](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-homepage.png)

## Creating and customizing a board

First things first. Let’s create a new board and start putting tasks on it.

1. At the top of the page, click the **Select board** box and click **Create board**. From this page, type in a name for your board and click 
**Next**. You can change this later, so don’t stress about it!

1. Now, set your columns. Starting from the top, these columns will set your left-to-right workflow on your Kanban. You might want to add a 
“Holding” or “Waiting” column, but it really depends on your workflow. If you’re not sure about what to use, check out the book [Personal 
Kanban: Mapping work, navigating life by Jim Benson](https://www.amazon.com/Personal-Kanban-Mapping-Work-Navigating/dp/1453802266/).

1. Click the **Create board** button when you're finished.

![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow board creation settings page](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-create-board.png)

This is the main Kanban workspace. Each column will hold your tasks and you’ll be moving them from left to right as you work. One of the 
coolest features of KanbanFlow is the ability to track the time it takes for each task. At the end of a week, it can give you a report that 
helps you understand how much time you spent on each task. I use the Pomodoro method (25 minutes working, 5 minute break) to organize my time 
and I also use the stopwatch to track longer projects and meetings. If you want to learn more about Pomodoros, check out [the Pomoro Techique 
website](http://pomodorotechnique.com/)

The magic starts when you create your first task.

1. Click the **plus symbol** at the top of any column. ![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow To-do entry popup 
window](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-To-do-entry.png)

1. From here, you can add a name and a description. We’ll talk about Labels, Color, and Responsibility later.

1. There are two time boxes at the bottom of the **Add task** window. Enter the amount of time you think it will take you in the **Time 
estimate** box on the right. Leave the left box unchanged. It will update itself when you use the timer. ![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow To-do 
entry popup window and focusing on the Time Estimate box](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-To-do-time-entry.png)

1. The **Dates** tab at the top of the window allows you to add due dates that correspond with columns. For example, if a project is due next 
week, I would want to mark that down on my Kanban as in the target column “Done.” I would also want to begin working on it at a certain point, 
so I’ll make a due date for "In progress." ![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow To-do entry popup window with the Dates tab 
selected](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-To-do-dates.png)

5. Larger tasks can be broken into smaller ones in the **Subtasks** tab at the top of the window. ![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow To-do entry 
popup window with the Dates tab selected](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-To-do-subtasks.png)

Now that you’ve got a task, you can start working! You don’t have to track your time, but the Timer at the bottom left of the page allows you 
to get stats on how long you’ve been working on a specific task. It’s a really cool feature that you can use to troubleshoot which tasks are 
taking too much of your time each week.

![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow timer popup window](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-timer.png)

Choose a task by clicking on the **Select** button. When I’m ready, I just click “Start,” begin working, and the timer counts down.

When you finish with a task, just click and drag the task over into another column.

![Screenshot of the KanbanFlow column workflow](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-task-drag.png)

## Conclusion

When things get rockin and you get used to the website, you can really increase your productivity. I love KanbanFlow because it allows me to 
get a zoomed-out overview of all the tasks I have to do in the future while allowing me to break down bigger tasks into small subtasks. I can 
brainstorm ideas by adding comments and I can keep meeting notes and other snippets of information organized directly into the task, making it 
much easier than having scraps of paper everywhere on my desk or having to keep OneNote files in order. I can set reminders for myself of 
upcoming tasks, I can add intermediary deadlines to projects to make sure I start working by a certain date and time, and I can be reminded of 
these deadlines if I happen to miss them.  I can add tags and colors to every task so that I can better sort by priority, task type, project, 
or any other indicator that I set up.

KanbanFlow gives me a great summary of all of the work I’ve completed in the Reports and Statistics view and breaks down how long it took to 
complete each task. If I used Pomodoros, I can also track which interruptions broke my workflow. If I have to write a 15-5, track time for a 
project, or send a progress report email, it just takes a few clicks to filter out in progress tasks and only display completed items within a 
specific date range. From this, I can see if there are specific tasks that are taking too much of my time or if I’ve been interrupted too often 
by distractions. KanbanFlow also has the ability to work in teams. You can break up big projects into smaller pieces which you can then assign 
to others. You can make comments and respond to feedback from your team. You can add meeting notes and the best part, in my opinion, is that 
you keep all of that information tied to the specific task, avoiding the need to keep dozens of single-line emails.

All of these features come standard in KanbanFlow and I depend on it every day to keep me organized and on track with what’s coming up on my 
calendar. I’ve gotten to the point where I wouldn’t work without it!

Here’s what mine looks like:

![Screenshot of my KanbanFlow board](/images/2016-07-19-KanbanFlow-mine.png)


















